Blogpost about testing (#386)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2021-02-05-testing.md

---
title: Manual vs Automated Testing
abstract: 'Pros and cons (if there are any) of automated testing and the process of transparent validation.'
cover: /covers/test-cover.png
author:
  - piotr.konkol
  - kamila.banecka
layout: post
published: true
date: 2021-02-05
archives: "2021"

tags:
  - testing
  - firmware
categories:

>   - Firmware

Reviewer: @KBanecka do we plan to use all categories for this post?

Author: additrional categories removed

  - IoT
  - Miscellaneous
  - OS Dev
  - App Dev
  - Security
  - Manufacturing

---

#### The Importance of test automation

>  <div style="text-align: justify"> It is common understanding that software, or – in our case – firmware must be

Reviewer 2: Can't we instruct hugo to justify the paragraphs? @artur-rs ?

Reviewer: @miczyg1 we can add simple css change:
```
.post-content p {
    text-align: justify;
}
```
but do we want that in all posts? @KBanecka ?

Reviewer: @KBanecka if you want to test that, find `bulma.css` file and add or replace above method in the code, then do the local preview of the blog post

Author: dodałam zmianę

thoroughly tested before releasing it to the public. Without doing that we risk

> leaving security vulnerabilities, user-experience destroying bugs, and less

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
leaving security vulnerabilities, user-experience destroying bugs and less
```

optimal performance. While it may seem obvious what should be done, more
specific glimpse proves that there is more than one possible approach to

> testing, and the choice clearly determines the further results. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
testing and the choice clearly determines the further results. The
```

reproducible tasks, like functional tests, only the automation will bring the
expected results. </div>

![testing_chart](/img/test1.png)
 <div style="text-align: justify">
Our validation infrastructure in 3mdeb consists of ~150 tests. To perform the
whole testing process step by step would take days, especially that the whole
process is repetitive. Summarizing, manual testing in this case costs more and
slows down the whole development pace, when great delay occurs between code
release and feedback for the programmers. If we would still try to test
manually, our knowledge of code quality would be worse and the delivery would be
delayed.

The whole process may be processed in a much more convenient way. Tests can be
run by the developer, who needs only a brief information about the testing
environment. Clear documentation and ready-to-use physical platforms with system
of automatic availability management make it possible to run both, the single
tests and complete suites, concerning a set of functionalities that must be
checked. In result we receive immediate feedback about the changes made and the
features that were added.

> An automated testing infrastructure can be paired with constant integration, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An automated testing infrastructure can be paired with constant integration and
```

delivery pipeline, to enhance the overall performance. We successfully use such
approach when testing our projects. It all begins when most recent changes for
the release are ready in our core repository and marked as a

> release. From this point, the automatic process of building usable binaries

Reviewer: @KBanecka not "release candidate"? Always marked as `_rc1` etc.?

> begins, signing it with authenticity proving keys, testing, and delivering the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
begins signing it with authenticity proving keys, testing, and delivering the
```

final product to the customer, as an online ready-to-download file. Because
these time-consuming tasks are performing automatically, it leaves developers
more time for truly creative work on delivering the highest quality of product.

Test verification process needs understanding of the tested functionality and
further interpretation of the results. In case of the automated testing, the
output provides result and definition for getting the necessary information for
users, clients and developers. When the complete regression testing results for
the given release are ready, the next step is to make them accessible and easy
to understand. </div>

![testing_chart](/img/test2.png)

#### Why is it so important?
<div style="text-align: justify">
Trust and confidence are critical to the success of a firmware product. There
are two main methods for achieving it: transparency (users can see how the
testing model is performed) and hard validation (users can track how deeply the
product is tested). The greatest result brings joining those two methods.
Publishing the results of hard validation gives the purest quality proof of the

> product deliverable. This is how we are performing in 3mdeb, to could describe our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
product deliverable. This is how we are performing in 3mdeb, to describe our
```
?

> products as secure, and optimized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
products as secure and optimized.
```

Usually the testing process is ended when the results are made available
for public eyes. We could end this post here as well, but there is something

> more. For the analysis it is important, how the tests are

Reviewer 2: Inocrrect wrapping

presented. Usually the results are stored in the charts from publicly available
spreadsheets, serving the informing role only. This process can be far improved,

> and automated, and this is what we did. While waiting for our automated tests to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and automated and this is what we did. While waiting for our automated tests to
```

be processed, we have created Dasharo Transparent Validation. System, that

> automatically presents the results in a clean way that is easy to get, and have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
automatically presents the results in a clean way that is easy to get. It also has
```

This sentence would be too long

many available filters to customize the view for presenting the exact data

> needed, with support for charts embedabble on a website or repository readme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
needed, with support for charts embeddable on a website or repository readme
```

notes. You will hear more about Dasharo Transparent Validation soon.
</div>

![testing_chart](/img/test3.png)

## Summary

>  We think that our team can help you improving the security of your firmware.

Reviewer 2: This is not our standard summary. Secondly we should avoid "we know better what you think" approach. Thirdly we simply can, we have no doubts. Please revert to the old summary.

manually, our knowledge of code quality would be worse and the delivery would be
delayed.

The whole process may be performed in a much more convenient way. Tests can be
run by the developer, who needs only a brief information about the testing
environment. Clear documentation and ready-to-use physical platforms with system
of automatic availability management make it possible to run both, the single
tests and complete suites, concerning a set of functionalities that must be
checked. In result we receive immediate feedback about the changes made and the
features that were added.

#### Remote Testing Environment

As we are performing our test on hardware we had to found a way to automate
management and operations on physical platforms. To meet that goal we have
created Remote Testing Environment - a Orange Pi Zero hat that gives us
ability to remotely control power, simulate pressing of buttons like power on
or reset, read serial output and flash firmware using physical cable connection
that can unbrick device without any manual intervention. This setup has a
corresponding configuration file for every platform model which allow for

> smooth remote test execution. You can find [RTE](https://jira-3mdeb.atlassian.net/browse/SHA-195?focusedCommentId=55760&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-55760) in our shop.

Reviewer: @KBanecka link to be replaced for correct one

Author: done

![RTA](/img/RTA.png)

An automated testing infrastructure can be paired with constant integration and
delivery pipeline, to enhance the overall performance. We successfully use such
approach when testing our projects. It all begins when most recent changes for
the release are ready in our core repository and marked as a release candidate.
From this point, the automatic process of building usable binaries begins,
signing it with authenticity proving keys, testing, and delivering the final
product to the customer, as an online ready-to-download file. Because these
time-consuming tasks are performing automatically, it leaves developers more
time for truly creative work on delivering the highest quality of product.

Test verification process needs understanding of the tested functionality and
further interpretation of the results. In case of the automated testing, the
output provides result and definition for getting the necessary information for
users, clients and developers. When the complete regression testing results for
the given release are ready, the next step is to make them accessible and easy
to understand.

> 

Reviewer: @KBanecka please add also note about the RTE tag on our blog: https://blog.3mdeb.com/tags/rte/

Author: done
